#=============================================================================#
|                           [ Deep Space Survival ]                           |
#=============================================================================#

Deep Space Survival is a mostly-text-based survival-horror game written in
Python using Pygame. The game setting and themes are being written in the style
of games like System Shock, Dead Space, and many others. Obviously as a
text-based game (mostly) DSS will need to rely more on storytelling,
exploration, strategy, and resource management than many of the games that
inspired it. This is fine by me, since those are the aspects I enjoy most about
the games in question.

#=============================================================================#
|                            [ Mostly-Text-Based ]                            |
#=============================================================================#

When I say "Mostly-Text-Based" I mean that the game environment is conveyed to
the player in a primarily textual format. Furthermore, the player's actions are
expressed to the game engine in a primarily textual format. This is not to say
that the game can't contain visual or audible elements where they will add to
the gameplay experience; it would be a waste to pass up any opportunity to make
the game more enjoyable and accessible. With that said, the core goal of the
project is still a "Mostly-Text-Based" game; all other decisions hinge on that.

#=============================================================================#
|                         [ Core Gameplay Elements ]                          |
#=============================================================================#

These are intended as the main elements of gameplay:

[Exploration]
The game takes place inside man-made artificial environments in space. The
player is tasked with exploring these environments in order to ensure his own
survival and the resolution of larger goals. Environments will be designed so
that the player needs to explore to succeed; the resources necessary to defeat
challenges will be well hidden, and the path to the goal will rarely be the
most obvious one. To prevent tedium, the exploration process itself needs to be
entertaining. Providing interesting information about the setting and the story
will be the first measure to prevent tedium. Active challenges will be the
second; solving puzzles, overcoming hazards, and defeating enemies all engage
the player mentally and keep him from falling asleep at the keyboard as he
wanders the desloate halls of an abandoned space station.

[Resource Management]
One of the keys to success in the game will be proper resource management. One
of the player's primary goals from game start to game over is finding weapons,
ammunition, and other supplies. If the player misuses these resources, he will
find the game becomes increasingly difficult until he learns to allocate them
better or the game becomes so difficult that he cannot progress. Losing the
game by running out of resources is not much fun, however, so there will always
be a minor flow of extra resources and the game will never become completely
unplayable without them (Example: Low- to middle-difficulty enemies constantly
respawn in some areas and the player always has some inexhaustible means of
defeating these enemies. By grinding these enemies using his inexhaustible
offensive abilities, the player can collect resources from them until he is
able to progress the game once more. The player is penalized for poor choices,
but the penalty is actually just a chance to recover and learn from mistakes.)

#=============================================================================#
|                           [ To Be Continued..! ]                            |
#=============================================================================#
